INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST/SYSTEM ANALYSIS
Summary
I have over 10 years of professional service in Information Technology Support and Technical Operations in working with the Federal Government
and private sectors. I have a broad knowledge and expertise in strategic planning, IT Business Systems, Network Operations, IT Security and
System Analysis. My goal is to secure permanent employment within a outstanding organization that offer opportunities for growth and
advancement, while implementing a high degree of professionalism, enthusiasm, initiative on a daily basis.
Highlights
Active Top Security Clearance/SCI
Certified CompTIA Security+
Certified Cisco Network Associate
Microsoft SharePoint 2010 Train
Experience
Company Name February 2015 to May 2016 Information Technology Specialist/System Analysis
City , State
Serve as IT System Analyst; assist with business process improvement efforts, responsible for the physical setup of computer workstations,
configuration of Microsoft Outlook 2013, operation, and integration of hardware and software components associated with databases that
support the Department of The Army.
Monitor network to ensure network availability to all system users and perform necessary maintenance to support network availability.
Collaborate and work together with Joint Service Provider, Information Technology Agency, DISA and Video Teleconference Team,
coordinate and implement superior IT services to Army G-3-5-7staff and customers.
Develop document and implement IT asset management program to identify the location and maintain accountability of IT equipment.
Serve as Contract Office Representative, effectively manage Verizon service contract, in business systems tools such as Contractor
Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS) and Wide Area Work Flow (WAWF).
Manage IT related issues in through trouble ticketing system known as Remedy.
Coordinate with custom care liaison regarding Technical Assessment and Cost Estimate, Life Cycle Replacement.
Prepare documentation on complex systems, processes in assigned functional area of responsibility and maintain business continuity plan.
Manage copier and printer inventory program
Serves as Entitlement Manager for DoD Enterprise Email system, create distribution list, email accounts, restrict and grant permission to
both individual and group emails.
Responsible for analyzing new information technology equipment and conduct testing of product and services.
Responsible for migration of ISDN and VOIP telephone systems of over 1500 users. Ensure corrective actions to restore operational
services the Verizon software applications.
Provide technical assistance and desktop support on various operating systems and applications.
Conduct information assurance and security training and manage network account access requests.
Serve as an advisor to the Chief Information Officer on matters relating to security vulnerabilities and threats to G-3-5-7's computer
systems.
Develop corresponding security countermeasures necessary to protect technical, complex, sensitive and classified information processed on
Army computer equipment.
Provide technical support and assist in preparing and implementing policy guidance to G-3-5-7 organization.
Evaluate adequacy of new or revised information security policy, standards, and procedural guidance and support for the protection of
information technology systems.
Work closely with program and project activities to develop safeguards for the computers that are connected to Army networks.
Review operational and technical security aspects associated with specific sites and facilities to determine vulnerability and threat.
Company Name October 2013 to December 2014 Information Technology Specialist/Network Administrator
City , State
Serve as a system analyst; primary job duty is to monitor servers and load balancers activity through sophisticated software applications
such as HP Business Services Manager, HP Network Node Manager, and HP Operation Manager for UNIX.
Schedule application stop monitoring through platform on mainframes.
Assist both national and international Boeing and AT&T customers when alarms are received from voice over internet protocol telephone,
Break/Fix, wireless LAN control (access point) circuit, catalytic switches, routers, servers and flight line managed applications.
Preform triage procedures then trouble shoot and escalate service ticket, assign tickets into the appropriate network or global group for
further investigation (usually Tier 3 IT help desk or higher support).
Operate and utilizes various software applications to include but not limited to: SPARK instant messaging, Same Time Lotus Notes,
Microsoft LYNC, and Network Data Viewer (NDV), Remedy ticketing, Riverbed, Names and Address Management System (NAMS),
Circuit Design & Configuration (CDC) and Cisco Prime.
Daily reports, manage ticketing disposal and conduct shift change brief.
Monitor functionality, information assurance, security, and integrity of internet services; troubleshoots and resolves technical problems with
the design and delivery of internet services; collects and analyzes internet service usage and performance statistics; evaluates new internet
services and technologies; and provides technical advice to internet content providers.
Company Name April 2005 to July 2013 Information Technology Specialist
City , State
Knowledge of data communications, networking equipment such as wide area network, local network routers, switches assist in trouble
shooting devices and computers with end users.
Coordinates and schedule with ATT internet provider to set up and install voice teleconferences (VTC) through Polygram system, provided
IT telephone support, customer service, employ Microsoft Windows 7, and operating systems upgrade.
Image hard-drives through use of Ghost Cast server, unlock computers through Dame Ware remote access, and utilize active directory
program, reset pins and passwords.
Ability to support common applications and access/password management used in the industry, including Microsoft, Active Directory,
Resource Access Control Facility (RACF) environments.
Knowledge of information systems security policies and assurance.
Enterprise server, LAN, e-mail system administration experience and issue help desk trouble tickets.
Managed highly classified telecommunication materials.
Received and distributed sensitive items to over 100 organizations with no deficiencies.
Maintained and tracked incoming/ outgoing security material.
Assisted with the standard procedure to ship and package of electronic equipment.
Issued special telecommunication encryption keys to civilian companies and military commands.
Provide strategic planning and operation support to command group in Germany.
Preformed analytical, technical and administrative work planning, daily inventory, diagnose and respond to customer incident reports, site
evaluation to ensure clients are incompliance, resolved issues with loading keys into electronic simple key loader, prepare reports, brief
clients and higher chain of command and supervised four personals.
Implemented and preformed retention control program of military personnel.
Providing guidance on administrative and military personnel matters.
Installs, maintains, and troubleshoots Signal support equipment and terminal devices.
Installs, operates, and maintains designated radio and data distribution systems.
Maintains selected electronic devices.
Performs Signal support functions, to include providing technical assistance and training for user owned and operated automation and
communications equipment.
Prepares maintenance and supply requests for unit level Signal support.
Operates and performs preventive maintenance checks and services on assigned vehicles.
Supervises, installs, maintains and troubleshoots Signal support systems and terminal devices, to include radio, wire, and battlefield
automated systems.
Provides technical assistance and unit level training for automation, communication, and user owned and operated Signal equipment.
Disseminates information services policy Installs, operates and performs preventive maintenance checks and services on power generators.
Performed duties as an aviation operations specialist in the primarily job responsibility to schedule and dispatch tactical aircraft missions.
Operate one of the largest fleets of aircraft in the world and keep them running safe and efficient.
Process local and cross-country flight clearances.
Check accuracy of flight plans and coordinate them.
Maintain flight logs on incoming/outgoing flights and individual flight records.
Alert crash crews of emergencies.
Interpret and post weather reports.
Company Name March 2004 to April 2006 Data Entry Specialist
City , State
Served as a medical reviewer and data entry processor of DOT physical examines of various clients into medical system program Occulink,
Microsoft excel for tracking of missing information.
Performed administrative duties, customer service, maintained files, and medical records.
Correspond and coordinated with medical professionals, performed client audit, analyst.
physical exams to ensure accuracy of medical history, educated clients on quality assurance, proper data processing, expedition of timely
feedback, exams and increase productivity.
Process data entry and transmits data to appropriate site.
Edits and performs quality assurance and quality control checks during the input of data from source documents.
Assists in quality control edits by retrieving reports for the data collectors and Team Chief.
Organizes all completed source documents and mail with appropriate attachments to filing site.
Makes weekly transaction tapes along with weekly form counts and prepares tapes and forms to be mailed to appropriate site.
Plan and schedule installation of new or modified hardware, operating systems, and applications software.
Maintain systems configuration and manage installation and integration of systems fixes, updates, and enhancements.
Oversee/perform equipment installation or relocation, testing and acceptance processes.
Analyze and evaluate work concerned with integrated systems of computer programs and/or computer equipment.
Develop and document systems administration standard operating procedures.
Education
GRANTHAM UNIVERSITY 2017 Master of Science : Information Management Technology City , State
SAINT LEO UNIVERSITY 2015 Bachelor of Business Administration : Management City , State
SAINT LEO UNIVERSITY 2013 Associate of Arts : Liberal Arts City , State
Additional Information
Active Top Secret Clearance, Graduate of Signal Systems Support Advance Leader Course in Information Systems and Networking training,
Military Good Conduct Awards, Overseas Ribbons, Operation Iraq Freedom Award, Global War on Terrorism Award, and Certificate of
Appreciation. Golden Harvest volunteer community services. Recognized as Non-Commission Officer of the Month December 2012 and a
candidate for Battalion Non-Commission Officer of the year March 2012.
Skills
Active Directory, Microsoft Outlook 2013, Windows 7, Windows 10, system security, data automation, Circuit Design application, UNIX client
server, interpersonal skills, hardware and software installations, network systems, content encryption, customer relations, desktop support,
telecommunications, databases query, electronic filing, forms, Microsoft Windows deployment, software Imaging, contract specialist and
acquisition. Supply and property inventory, WAN, LAN, Lotus Notes, mainframes, materials, trouble shooting and ticketing systems, network
security,policies, formal presentations, quality assurance, Life Cycle Replacement (LCR), radio communication, geographical statistics, strategic
planning, supervisor, Cisco switches and routers, system administration, and technical support.