INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST (WEB), GS-11
Career Overview
Objective Â
IT Specialist, GS-2210-9 (CUSTSPT)
NOC Merit-2016-0031
Experienced Systems Analyst with diverse industry experience in government, maritime, forestry, research and development. Professional expertise
includes systems applications, disaster recovery planning, customer services, including remote, phone and local one on one.
Qualifications
Excellent communicator MS SharePoint, MS Access
Adopts technology to business needs MS Office, Adobe Suite
Stays current with technology OS(s) Windows, Linux, Mac
Excellent interpersonal skills Skype, WebEx, Adobe Connect, MS Lync
Technical Skills
Skills Experience Total Years Last Used
Level I, II and III customer Support Regional System Manager 5 September 2014
System installs and upgrades of agency software System Admin 5 September 2015
Accomplishments
Awarded by the Forest Service, Pacific Northwest Research Station, for developing publishing innovations, multiple website support, and
championing SharePoint. Also, awarded for superior performance during 2013.
Awarded by the Forest Service, Pacific Northwest Research Station, for delivering superb computer assistance to the Communication Application
Program, and demonstrated outstanding support to the maintenance of the stations' websites, and demonstrating extra effort in updating research
related databases, and for researching new media sources such as e-pubs for the station's publications.
Key developer and supporter for a new Regional Examination Center(REC) Merchant Mariner database, which was widely adopted by several
REC's across the United States, for the U.S. Coast Guard.
Work Experience
Company Name City , State Information Technology Specialist (Web), GS-11 08/2013 to 02/2016
Over two years of planning, coordinating, and identifying business and research functions, resources and services working with the Forest
Services' Climate Change Resource Center (CCRC).
Coordinated testing and improvement of Chief of Information Office (CIO) Virtual Machine Primer training guide, for use by the Forest
Service IT specialist, to transform web services to a Content Management System, using Drupal with Linux platform.
Established a prototype site for training web team members, in preparations for migration to a new content management system.
Instrumental in researching, planning and collaborating with teams in the Forest Service to increase the knowledge base of Drupal,
SharePoint and eBooks for PNWRS, R&D and members CIO/WO levels.
Apply federal, department, and agency web regulations and policies.
Trained program departments to use MS SharePoint to collect files, data, publications, and agency policies into one central hub.
Ensure that all material presented is in compliance with copyright requirements and section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act.
Company Name City , State Computer Assistant, GS-5 03/2010 to 08/2013
Managed internet and intranet sites.
Created and modified publication database entries within the Forest Services' Research Information Tracking System (RITS).
Administered SharePoint sites.
Provide group and one-on-one training to staff and new site owners.
Converted print publications to eBook format for eReaders, including: embedding video and audio media clips.
Company Name City , State Computer Department Intern 09/2008 to 06/2009
Designed and proto-typed a web-based, IT assets inventory tracking system, using Linux, Apache, MySQL, PHP, HTML, and CSS.
Assisted all levels of school districts technical staff, with projects and day to day operations.
Planned and deploying technology for teachers and students in the Camas School District, including software migration, computer and
server upgrades.
Establish a fleet of Linux OS laptops, that saved the school district over $250,000, by repurposing old laptops marked to be recycled.
Assist with Citrix software, MS Office, Adobe Suite, Linux based Ubuntu and applications.
Installed, maintained and repaired network hardware/software on multiple-campuses.
Setup over 80 media presentations carts with sound systems for classes, working after normal work hours and weekends to minimize
downtime for classrooms.
Company Name City , State Database Intern 06/2008 to 08/2009
Create a patient tracking system using MS Access relationship database to help market a naturopathic clinic.
Company Name City , State Office/Building Manager 01/2005 to 10/2005
32-hour work week
Managed a church office, created correspondence and newsletters
Scheduled and setup satellite seminars and media presentations.
Coordinated building use for Homelink River charter school, to provide a safe and functional classrooms and facilities.
Scheduled and supervised events for church and school.
Company Name City , State Geek Squad Tech 10/2004 to 12/2004
Geek Squad Tech
Assist customers with troubleshooting their computer problems, and technical questions.
Upgrade hardware and software, removed viruses-spyware, sold computers and accessories, setup new computers to BestBuy
specifications for quick sales.
Company Name City , State Marine Science Technician, E-6 11/1984 to 05/2004
Provided level I, II, and III IT support as a Regional System Manager for other 400 workstations, across multiple Coast Guard campus, at
remote field stations, and for facilities on ships.
Provided training a assistance to system operators at units in problem solving, daily operations, including system backups, user profile
setups, and user support.
Displayed courtesy and strong interpersonal skills with all customer interactions.
Built and maintained successful relationships with service providers, dealers and consumers.
Assisted customers with technical issues via email, live chat and telephone.
Created and supported multiple MS Access databases to track business needs.
Education and Training
Master of Science : Management and Organizational Leadership 08/2015 Warner Pacific University , City , State , USA
Management and Organizational Leadership
Certification : ITIL Foundation 2016 New Horizons , City , State , USA
Bachelor of Science : Technology 06/2009 Eastern Washington University , City , State , USA
Technology
Site Builder and Theming : Drupal, Content Management 08/2012 OpenSourcery , City , State , USA
Additional Skills
Web, Content Management Systems, team collaborator/facilitator, innovator inspection, audits, presentations, researcher, self-starter,T1, problem
solver