INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST
Summary
An organized DBA professional with over 6years hands-on experience supporting Oracle databases, Sql Server databases and AWS
infrastructure. Equipped with excellent communication and interpersonal skills; a highly organized individual and team player who possesses strong
analytical and problem solving skills, and is who is committed in delivering quality services to customers/clients.
Experience
Information Technology Specialist 03/2018 to Current Company Name City , State
Â Primary responsibilities include production support, installation and configuration, migration, backup and recovery, performance tuning,
cloning, security, upgrades, and patches.
Planned, installed and upgraded multiple Oracle databases from 11.2.0.4 to 12.2.0.
Added targets to OEM 13c and used OEM 13c to monitored databases.
Created rules, security profiles using OEM 13c.
Performed Hot/Cold Backup, Recovery and Cloning of databases using RMAN
Planned and implemented Backup strategies, used RMAN and Crontab to schedule backup.
Installed and upgraded databases from MySQL 5.6 to 5.7 and implemented mysqld_multi for better performance.
Migrated databases from on-premise to AWS using Database migration services.
Launched and maintained RDS and EC2 instances in AWS.
Created Snapshots, Elastic IPs, EBS Volumes, Security Groups per clients/costumers request.
Performed cross region replication with S3.
Created security groups to manage inbound and outbound rules.
Database Administrator 12/2014 to Current Company Name City , State
Troubleshot and resolved web application issues escalated from customer support and other departments with a 100% success rate.
Worked with clients to analyze computing and network needs and implemented appropriate solutions within each department's budget.
Analyzed performance monitoring/tuning/troubleshooting - Oracle database performance tuning services with EXPLAIN PLAN, TKPROF,
STATSPACK, AWR and SQL TRACE.
Installed, configured and maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, and 10g RAC
servers for the purpose of disaster recovery procedures.
Generated ASH, ADDM and AWR Reports using OEM from Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c database and analyzed the reports for Oracle wait
events, time consuming SQL queries, tablespace growth, and database growth.
Implemented database re-organizations as required to improved performance and ensure maximum up-time of the database; implemented
SQL Access and SQL Tuning advisers recommendations.
Launched and maintained RDS and EC2 instances in AWS.
Created Snapshots, Elastic IPs, EBS Volumes, Security Groups per clients/costumers request.
Planned and implemented high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM and
ACFS file systems.
Migrated multiple stand-alone databases to RAC databases using Rconfig, RMAN and OEM.
Migrated single instance databases from NON-ASM to ASM file system to improve performance.
Installed Oracle 10g, 11g and 12c software and created multiple databases including Plug-able and container databases in oracle 12c.
Implemented TDE, Data Redaction and database Auditing to improved data integrity and security.
Applied PSU on standalone TEST environment using OPatch and same PSU (Grid and RDBMS Patching) on production cluster using
OPatch Auto.
Replicated data in real time using Oracle Golden Gate and Oracle streams.
Analyzed, interpreted and troubleshot Golden Gate related issues.
Designed and implemented different backup strategies like Cold, Hot backup using RMAN with Flash Recovery Area and Logical Backups
with EXPDP/IMPDP.
Scheduled RMAN backups, purge jobs, Maintenance Jobs using DBMS_JOBS, DBMS_SCHEDULER, Crontab and OEM.
Implemented and managed logical backup/recovery with Datapump and Export/Import utilities.
Cloned databases using RMAN and Manually using scripts.
Implemented Point In Time Recovery on one or more tablespaces to recover lost of a table(s) while eliminating down time for the database.
Installed SQL Server EE 2012 on windows and created databases, triggers, tables, procedures, functions and database diagrams.
Upgraded databases from 10g to 11g and to 12c using DBUA, Datapump, Manually, Transportable Tablespace and Oracle Dataguard.
Oracle Database Administrator 07/2012 to 10/2014 Company Name City , State
Prepared technical architecture proposals for enhancements and migrated an existing standalone database to RAC database.
Provided senior technical support to Developers and troubleshot performance issues and maintained high availability and security of
databases.
Analyzed and tuned the Database to identify potential database bottle necks such as response delay, locking contention, wait event using
tools like STATSPACK, EXPLAIN PLAN, and TKPROF.
Collaborated and worked together with development and operations staff and resolved problems quickly and efficiently.
Maintained Physical, Logical, Active standby databases supported by Data guard on Oracle 11g, and 10g RAC servers for the purpose of
disaster recovery procedures.
Installed, configured, deployed and monitored different databases and application servers using Oracle OEM 12c Grid Control.
Worked efficiently in Database administration activities such as User management, Space management, Monitoring, Creating Database,
Managing Oracle Instance and Database security and Materialized views.
Maintained and administered high availability solutions such as Real Application Cluster (RAC) in Oracle 11gR2 Grid and 10g on ASM file
system.
Planned and applied PSU/CPU patches and upgraded multiple databases from 10g to 11g.
Replicated data in real time using oracle Golden Gate.
Increased data security; implemented TDE and database auditing and created threshold on database metrics and set alert for a more
stronger security.
Maintained Active Data guard, creating both Logical and Physical Standby databases for data disaster recovery solutions.
Worked on 24/7 environments, supported, monitored, managed and troubleshot database related issues over 300 oracle 10g, 11g and 12c
databases with sizes from 300G to 2TB.
Implemented backup strategies used RMAN for incremental/full backup and Datapump to backup logical components.
Education and Training
Bachelor of Science : Civil Engineering University Of Buea City , State , Cameroon Civil Engineering
Technical Environment
Databases: Oracle 10g, 11g, 12c, MySQL 5.6, 5.7, Sql Server 2008, 2012
Platforms: Oracle Enterprise Linux 5.11, 6.7, 7, HP-UX 10.x, 11.x. Sun Solaris 2.5, 2.6, Windows Server 2008
Tools : TKPROF, EXPLAIN PLAN, STATSPACK, AWR, and ADDM Toad, Putty, X-wing32, WinSCP.Â
Database Utilities : Oracle Enterprise Manager, Real Application Cluster, ASM, Transportable Tablespaces, SQL*Loader, RMAN,
DataPump, Export, Import
Languages :Â Â·SQL*PLUS, PL/SQL, UNIX Shell Scripting, Ksh, bash