MANAGER, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PROJECT MANAGEMENT OFFICE
Professional Summary
Highly motivated and driven Manager of the Project Management Office (PMO) . Currently seeking potential opportunities to continue to help
other organizations realize and reap benefits of formal PMO methodology. Passionate about PMO engagement in health care, as I have watched
over 17 years of what was once lacking in this industry, take hold and prove its value and worth. I have had the pleasure and benefit of watching
three organizations grow and blossom their teams with training and growth and development of a methodology that fits the culture of each
organization.
Education and Certification
B.A : Foreign Languages and Literatures 1997 VPI & SU (Virginia Tech) City , State
Foreign Languages and Literatures Degree in Spanish
Concentration in Management Science -Decision Support Systems
Note: Now known as Business Information Technology) Â
Certification : Project Management Certification 2004 Guilford Technical Comm College City , State
Project Management Advanced Certificate
PMP Certification : Project Management Professional 2012 Project Management Institute City , State
Certification complete and renewed in 2015
Skill Highlights
Highly professional and polished PMO Manager
Portfolio manager for all Corporate IT System Excellent skills with conflict resolution in tense stakeholder meetings
Implementations, High standards for personal excellence and integrity in a job well-done
Portfolio manager for IT Infrastructure Project Management Equally high standards for a high performing Project Management
(new and renovation construction related efforts) team
Excellent communication skills from all upper echelons of Skilled in Clinical Portfolio Management
leadership to team building Assisted in division of PMO to determine best fit for PM team
Currently managing large team of Senior and Intermediate Corporate / Clinical background
Project Managers, and PMO trained Business Analysts Advocate for Project Management training and skill building; soft skills
Passion for PMO shines through my work, and I strive to and PM skills are equally crucial to a high performing team.
help others achieve that pride in their profession
Professional Experience
Manager, Information Technology Project Management Office 06/2008 to Current Company Name City , State
Primary role: Manage portfolio of all PMO projects related to Corporate Services , and manage portfolio of all Infrastructure related projects.
Corporate Services Project portfolio includes such systems as Lawson, PeopleSoft, API, Centralized Warehouse (Infor/ Lawson tools) and
other non-clinical related applications
Infrastructure Project Portfolio includes all services related to wired or wireless networking, intra-facility connectivity, onboarding and
acquisition of other health care organizations
Managing two teams of Project managers each with specialty field skills to work application or technical/ infrastructure projects.
Monthly governance report out on each portfolio to executive committee to ensure priority and alignment to strategic goals are still accurate
with influx of projects in the pipeline,
Help PMO Trainer with Professional Development Skill building quarterly to determine soft skills that are needed for either PMO team.
Encourage training and leadership skills within all team members to continue growth and improvement professionally for each team
member's own unique goals
Encourage and require PMP for all Senior level role project managers
Monthly resource manager meeting to report out to Information Technology Management where there are resource gaps or conflicts with
other projects within the clinical portfolio.
Work closely with EPIC Project Management Office to share out resources wherever possible particularly related to technical dress
rehearsal and preparation of facilities prior to go live.
Project Manager /Application Systems Analyst III 06/2004 to 06/2008 Company Name City , State
Primary Role:
Project manager for multiple new information technology systems per year, ranging from $500k to $4M budgets
Lead team with CIO support to encourage all "Application Analyst" roles to attend and participate in Project Management methodology
training - beginnings of PMO for health care at High Point Regional
Responsible for all upgrades and ongoing software updates to multiple API Software tools. (HR/Payroll, Security, Scheduling and
timekeeping systems)
Lead a team of 60 members crossing over all clinical and corporate areas to implement enterprise staff scheduling solution
Project manager for Radiology Information System and complete dictation replacement project
Project Manager for HR Recruiting system (Halogen) and worked with HRIS team and vendor team to negotiate all aspects of
implementation.
Upgraded enterprise-wide timekeeping system, including all time clocks (API) and going from client/server to web-based application.
Included coordination of all aspects of implementation with vendor and training of all end users.
Systems Analyst II/ Product Manager - Vantive (PeopleSoft tool) 05/2001 to 06/2004 Company Name City , State
Support Peoplesoft's Vantive application in nationwide call center environments.
Brought up 3 new call centers on Vantive system and maintained support of existing three call centers.
Performed 2 full system upgrades and managed all budget and aspects of project surrounding upgrade.
Support and maintained software, making changes when requested in VB/VBA code to resolve differences in upgrade.
Maintained .NET web version of Vantive application for external clients to submit their own cases.
Worked closely with call center managers and supervisors, as well as director of nationwide call center, to ensure functionality and needs of
call center were met.
Systems Analyst II/ Project Manager 04/2000 to 05/2001 Company Name City , State
Project management for Patient Accounting and clinical upgrades, support of existing modules, and maintenance on MUMPS database in
UNIX: IDX Hospital Software package.
Oversee all related projects for Finance and Patient Accounting departments, supporting applications and issues with upgrades for financial
departments.
Help to implement new software on UNIFY database structure, MedStat software for Contract Management in the Finance Dept.
Assisting with system-wide upgrade of the corporate IDX software, and all required testing and documentation methodology required.
Project Manager Intermediate /Software Analyst II 12/1998 to 04/2000 Company Name City , State
Primary Financial Analyst on McKesson HBOC Star Financials, backup for McKesson HBOC Clinical system.
Helped team to perform upgrade to new GUI based platform of STAR Financials
Began studies in Project Management in the Healthcare environment, attended seminars on beginning methodology and PMO development.
Implemented what is now known to be infancy stages of today's EMR - document based scanning for medical records and financial
records. Managed all project aspects around installation of IMNET Electronic Medical Record software on an MS SQL 7.0 based
database.
Systems Analyst/ Programmer 05/1998 to 12/1998 Company Name City , State
Programmed in SQL for HBOC Clinical and Financial systems, developed various hospital reports for Financial departments.
Project Manager on IMNET Electronic Medical Records software.
Learned MSSQL to support system and help implement for Medical Records and charting needs, electronic sign-off by physician.
Skills
Manage departmental budget for all aspects; salaries, training, etc.
Manage and assist with creation of portfolio governance for Information Technology Systems Budget
Manage and assist with creation of Infrastructure budget required for all projects requiring infrastructure/ construction upgrades
Work hand in hand with Chief Technology Officer, VP Application Support to provide C-suite leadership with all relevant information
needed to approve annual portfolio for Information Technology