INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY CONSULTANT
Career Overview
Accomplished information technology professional with over 18 years of diverse technology, process analysis, project management, and
information management experience. Proven ability to successfully implement technology solutions, stay within time and budget constraints, and
improve efficiency through proper risk management, task coordination, and resource utilization. Core Competencies Project Management Systems
/ Network Reporting Proposal Development Web Design & Development SOP & Policy Writing Systems & Process Consulting Document
Management Technically-advanced information technology specialist successful in software administration and data communications.Experienced
Computer Systems Analyst with diverse industry experience in banking, healthcare, insurance and government. Professional expertise includes
systems applications, disaster recovery planning and information protection analysis.
Qualifications
Microsoft Windows (7, 8, 2012), Apple Mac (OS 7 - X, OS X Server, iOS), Unix/Linux (Ubuntu,
Red Hat, CentOS, FreeBSD, SmoothWall Express)
Server/Web Software: MS Exchange, MS SharePoint, MS IIS, MS Hyper-V, Apache, WordPress,
CloudFlare, Documentum, CoreDossier, Oracle Workflow, DavMail HTML5, CSS, PHP,
JavaScript, Java, XML, C++, Microsoft Visual Basic
Hardware: Dell, HP, IBM, Cisco,
SonicWall, NetGear,
Applications: Adobe CS6 (Acrobat, Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign, Dreamweaver, Premiere, Flash, FortiGateProgramming and design
After Effects, Fireworks), MS Office, MS Project, Office 365 MySQL, MS SQL, MS Access, skills
Oracle 11i, Sage ACT! Optimizing and performance tuning
Document management
Web content management
Web content management
Information security
Content management systems
Accomplishments
Print Graphic Support Â
Collaborated with marketing and business development groups for collateral needs by creating page layout designs for flyers, data sheets,
CD covers and other printed materials.
Requirements Analysis Â
Completed business requirements analysis including the evaluation of systems specifications for client Web site two weeks ahead of
deadline.
IT Training Â
Successfully trained 25 employees to use new operating system.
Project Management Â
Managed complex BI/DW deployment programs, facilitating acquisition of business requirements.
Prepared design specifications, developed reporting and analytics, tested and managed user adoption.
Work Experience
Information Technology Consultant
January 2003 to Current Company Name ï¼​ City , State
Senior-level consultant and manager of IT systems and projects with over 10 years experience.
Practiced successful design, administration, and development of business critical information systems for small to medium business clients
onsite or via remote access technologies.
Web designer, developer and hosting administrator for over 30 client domains, sites, and email.
Consistently recommend, implement, and customize internal or cloud-based technology systems to fit client business processes.
Facilitate and develop email, file, database, mobile, and web-based systems to meet client business needs.
Achieved increase in client's customer exposure by launching marketing and corporate branding campaigns including logo and website
design and development, SEO, Google AdWords, and social media Created and maintained procedures for hardware and software
maintenance, migration, upgrades, and end-of-life Implementation and management of all high-level business technology projects Senior-
level technical contact for client computer, network, server, and cloud-based systems Operations and technical specialist for consulting
firm's business-critical systems Worked closely with clients to analyze IT system requirements, clients information technology needs and their
resources in order to plan IT projects and fulfill clients expectations Developed IT system specifications after evaluating customer's nature of
work and business volume Solved clients IT issues - Determined changes, recommended quality software, projected modifications of
software, hardware and networking.
Monitored the execution of strategies, kept up to date with the new technology and researched latest Information technology market trends.
Assisted clients with IT solutions; prepared written reports on solutions offered.
Recommended the purchasing of new IT systems, presented new IT features/software and reported project progress to the management.
Prepared and presented technical proposals for clients.Designed, documented and executed maintenance procedures, including system upgrades,
patch management and system backups.
Systems & Document Administrator
January 1998 to January 2003 Company Name ï¼​ City , State
Key senior-level member of the information systems team with a variety of duties including project management, document management and
publishing, web design, print design, user training and systems administration.
Promoted within two months of hire, again within the first two years and lastly promoted to a newly developed position.
Achieved first global electronic submissions to regulatory agencies by implementing and validating an electronic document management and
publishing system as the primary systems administrator, developer, and project technical leader.
Resulted in NDA submission to the FDA ahead of target deadline saving millions in revenue.
Implemented and maintained application servers supporting secure Internet communications and business critical systems.
Created standard operating procedures, policies, development plans, disaster recovery, and other technical documentation in compliance
with FDA requirements Project technical lead for company ERP system, several ongoing department projects and managed temporary and
part-time employees and consultants Webmaster and graphic designer for Internet and intranet sites, print advertising, multimedia, and
presentation projects Maintained Mac desktop computers and software supporting DNA Sequencer and robotic systems.
Education and Training
Bachelor of Science : Information Technology , July 2016 University of Phoenix
Information Technology[Number] GPA
Skills
ACT!, Adobe, Acrobat, After Effects, Photoshop, Premiere, Apache, branding, business processes, C++, Cisco, Hardware, consultant,
consulting, CSS, client, clients, Database, Dell, disaster recovery, document management, Documentum, Dreamweaver, email, ERP, features,
Fireworks, Flash, FreeBSD, graphic designer, HP, HTML5, IBM, Illustrator, InDesign, information systems, Information technology, MS IIS,
Internet communications, Java, JavaScript, Languages, Linux, logo, Mac, Apple Mac, marketing, market, access, MS Access, MS Exchange, MS
Office, Office, MS Project, Microsoft Windows, migration, multimedia, MySQL, network, networking, Operating Systems, OS, OS 7, Oracle,
developer, PHP, policies, print advertising, print design, progress, project management, purchasing, quality, Express, Red Hat, robotic systems,
Sage, servers, MS SQL, systems administration, user training, technical documentation, Unix, upgrades, Microsoft Visual Basic, website design
and development, Web designer, web design, Webmaster, Workflow, written, XML