IT SUPPORT TECHNICIAN
Education
Bachelor of Science May 2014 William Woods University City , State GPA: GPA: 3.4
Management Information Systems GPA: 3.4
Summary
Experience in network/hardware/operating system troubleshooting, web page design, PC assembly, technical support,and customer service.
Analytical Helpdesk technician adept at resolving complex issues. Critical thinker who addresses customer support issues quickly and who
consistently exceeds performance standards.
Experience
IT Support Technician 12/2014 to Current Company Name City , State
Provide technical assistance and support for incoming queries and issues related to computer systems, software, and hardware.
Respond to queries either in person or over the phone.
Vast troubleshooting capabilities with IOS.
Train computer users
Maintain daily performance of computer systems.
Process an average of 15-20 inbound and outbound technical support calls daily
Network Assistant Intern 01/2014 to 05/2014 Company Name City , State
Assisted University network administrator with daily tasks including
wireless, VDI, patchwork
Network infrastructure, hardware management, and server room operations.
Technology Assistant Intern 08/2013 to 05/2014 Company Name City , State
Maintained 489 page University website
Managed and completed daily work orders for University Help Desk
Attended weekly administrative technology meetings relating to technology problems/solutions.
Managed/deployed hardware and software to student body as well as faculty.
Projects
(Project Leader on all Projects) Â
Website Development~Business Communications~Advanced Web~Entrepreneurship~Database Â
Management~Project.Management~MIS Capstone~Systems Analysis Â
Designed multiple websites using WordPress and Expressions Web
Compiled and developed new accounting and financial tracking system to be used by small or medium firms
Worked with multiple clients to design and develop websites Converted desktop websites to mobile using various tools
Created documentation manual for business clients
Developed and administered Usability Tests for quality customer assurance.
Summary of Skills
Sharepoint SAP
Cisco Telephony tools Active Directory
Bomgar Mobileiron
Visio HPSM
Que Monitoring IOS
Activites
Captain- 4-years of collegiate basketball
Active member of S.W.A.T. (Student Website Advancement Team)
Active member of the IT Student Academic Advisory Council
Over 100 hours of community service - Secret Santa - Reading books at over 5 grade schools - Volunteered in over 5 Â
summer camps - Participated in Salvation Army food drive -Yearly donator Good Will/ homeless shelters Â
Honors and Accomplishments
Trio Scholarship (1 of 2 awarded of over 500 students)
LEAD Scholarship (Leading, Educating, Achieving, Developing)
Potential Award (Belief in continued growth, dedication, and potential for future success)
JUCO All-American
Male Athlete of the Year
Academic All-Conference
IC3 Internet and Computing Core Certification