INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SPECIALIST(DISCOUNTPCFIX)
Summary
I am obsessed with technology. It's power to change everything. Technology fuels my passion and commitment to helping organizations do what
they set out to. When I engage, I bring fresh ideas that help your team galvanize performance. Refine your strategy. Spark new energy.
The future—and how we get there—depends on those who build, connect, create and transform our world.
Accomplished with over 10 years of information technology support experience.
Highly articulate Capable experienced installing and updating hardware and software systems for users. Known for effectively optimizing systems
to meet changing demands, enhancing collaboration and improving security.
Experienced Operations Analyst with first-rate skills in organizing, problem solving and project management. Ready to apply experience and
abilities to take on new professional challenges.
Passionate and driven professional with remarkable analytical and problem solving skills.
Expert quality assurance tester offering five years of experience in detailed technical and system specifications.
Provides a collaborative style and has well-developed communication skills. Seeking a role in test reporting and defect resolution.
Well-rounded team player with dynamic written and verbal communication skills.
Hardworking and resourceful team player.
History of going above and beyond to achieve notable results.
Offering excellent blend of technical aptitude and creative ability. Inspires design teams with engaging management techniques and innovative
thinking. Resourceful Technical Support Engineer polished in restoring system functionality by quickly assessing and resolving diverse hardware
and software problems.
Skills
Issue escalation Server and System Administration
Reporting and analysis End-User Training
Quality control Program installations
Schematic understanding Software testing
Critical thinking Server improvements
Data management Data backups
Network Administration Project management
Experience in leadership Security technologies
Improvement plan knowledge Network configuration
Supervision Time management
Hardware repair Active Directory knowledge
Computer configurations Cybersecurity analysis
System upgrades System Administration
New program installations Microsoft Office
Organizational leadership MS Office
Troubleshooting and Maintenance Apple iOS Technician
Equipment repair Help desk assistance
Power and hand tool use Application software testing
Troubleshooting and repairs Mechanical abilities
Preventative maintenance Information Systems Security Professional
Telecommunications systems Advanced knowledge of Windows OS
Component repairs Advanced knowledge of Google Chrome OS
Multitasking Soldering
Part inspections Database management
Friendly, positive attitude Technical knowledge of server system softwares
LAN and WAN configurations Servers, storage systems, network equipment, PCs or notebooks of any brands.
Experience
Information Technology Specialist(Discountpcfix) | 11/2011 - Current Company Name - City , State
Assisted client with new computer and network equipment purchases.
Updated or installed software for customers to ensure computer efficiency.
Checked in computers and performed diagnostics for repair.
Backed up data each evening, helping alleviate lost information following malware incident.
Updated software versions with patches and new installations to close security loopholes and protect users.
Identified hardware issues caused by component failures using approved diagnostic tools.
Installed over motherboards, processors and graphics cards.
Configured computers to network drivers and connected to printers and other peripheral equipment.
Upgraded laptops/desktops, improving speed and performance.
Fixed All Apple(iphone,imac,ipad,laptop) Products Screen damage.
Fixed any brand,Windows OS,Mac OS,Chrome OS products liquid damage.
Observed system functioning and entered commands to test different areas of operations.
Explained technology-related details in easy-to-understand terms to individuals from all walks of life and in various job positions.
Responded to assistance requests from users and directed individuals through basic troubleshooting tasks.
Reviewed current hardware and software configurations and recommended modifications to increase system speed.
Serviced and repaired equipment according to manufacturer guidelines.
Installed new systems and components according to service orders and manufacturer instructions.
Assessed and identified issues and quickly resolved to restore functionality.
Built and repaired computers according to schedule.
Installed, configured, and setup PCs in all stores for optimal operation and reporting.
Evaluated interfaces between hardware and software, testing performance requirements.
Studied complex technical issues and determined proper resolution methods.
Assisted with post-implementation troubleshooting of new applications and application upgrades.
Determined and alleviated hardware, software and network issues.
Installed and supported hardware and software, including desktops, servers and printers.
Identified operational and performance issues and worked with managers to resolve concerns.
Completed various reports and analyzed each report to decide where improvements could be made.
Recommended process and systems improvements such as changes to operations.
Updated hardware and software upon availability and supervised network to eliminate bottlenecks immediately.
Handled network configurations after hours and on weekends to alleviate downtime and maintain smooth operations.
Assisted customers with various types of technical issues via email, live chat and telephone.
Delivered local and remote Tier 1 IT support for hardware and software to company personnel.
Disassembled computer systems to troubleshoot and resolve hardware issues.
Increased overall company performance through improved IT uptime and cost reductions.
Quality Control Inspector Contractor | 04/2019 - Current Company Name - City , State
Conferred with scientific, engineering and technical personnel to resolve design, research and testing problems.
Worked with engineers to facilitate research and development testing, correct mechanical failures and generate technical specifications prior
to release.
Developed and implemented best practices for defect prevention and continuous improvement.
Used specialized tools to take precise measurements of various aspects of samples.
Consulted with engineers to resolve quality, production and efficiency problems.
Wrote detailed reports outlining performance, quality and defect rates.
Completed non-destructive tests and visual inspections on a continuous basis.
Inspected quality of finished products, making minor repairs to meet project expectations.
Documented nonconformities immediately and recommended techniques for prompt resolution.
Completed non-destructive tests and visual inspections continuously.
Reviewed drawings and blueprints to determine appropriate level of inspection required.
Adhered to all safety protocols to minimize equipment damage and avoid injuries.
Assessed materials, parts and products for conformance with quality control requirements and production specifications.
Network Analyst | 06/2016 - 05/2018 Company Name - City , State
Identified operational and performance issues and worked with managers to resolve concerns.
Supporting of the following hardware types: servers, storage systems, network equipment, PCs ipad and notebooks of any brands.
Analyzed operational performance to identify pain points and provided actionable solutions to management.
Educated personnel on company policies to foster improved customer retention and increased revenue.
Technical knowledge of standard server system software (Linux, Windows, VMWare)
Drove revenue and customer retention by visiting corporate and franchise centers serving clients to educate staff on company policies and
customer styling applications.
Wrote reports outlining results to facilitate management decision making.
Executed and monitored standards for user interfaces, page design and graphics development.
Provided senior technical support to both in-house staff and user departments for all network applications.
Monitored project budget through the careful assessment of resource usage and task management to ensure that costs were kept low.
Supported customers with password resets and account customization.
Recorded complaints, product deficiencies, returned orders and other customer documentation in system.
Supported customers having data connectivity issues, assisting with troubleshooting steps and rebooting of hardware.
Maintained composure and patience in face of difficult customer situations, applying de-escalation techniques and positive customer support.
Performed site evaluations, customer surveys and team audits.
Promoted continuous improvement for IT governance processes.
Spearheaded server infrastructure development, quality control, staging and production operations.
Quality Control Manager | 07/2013 - 08/2015 Company Name - City , State
Stayed well-informed of all company and federal regulations, which bolstered compliance of all corporate processes.
Used creative and professional policy to find solutions to issues while diminishing conflicts.
Handled all scheduling procedures for the department and directed team members in setting and achieving goals.
Observed customer specifications by monitoring the quality control of finished products.
Education and Training
The Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti - City , State | Associate of Science Science Technology , 2003
Phoenix East Aviation - City , State | F.A.A Aircraft Dispatcher License Aviation , 2014
University Of Colorado At Boulder - City | Certificate Cybersecurity Policy For Aviation And Internet , 07/2020
GOOGLE I.T SUPPORT - City | Certificate 03/2021
Completed professional Course in:
IT Security: Defense against the digital dark arts
Operating System and You: Becoming a power user
The Bits and Bytes of Computer Networking
System Administration and IT Infrastructure Service
Technical Support Fundamentals